what is it used for?
To store and process huge amounts of data

Is it a full on database?
No, It is an Alternative File System with Processing library

Hadoop is an addition to__________ not a substitution. 
RDBMS or NoSQL

List the Limits of RDBMS
Scalability (can not handle Petabyte Ranges)
It is Not Real Time
Queryability

Database Choices:	
File systmes: Hadoop
NoSQL: key/val such as RedS, ColumnStore such as DbMango, Graph
RDBMS: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle

what is Cap Theory and name sub sections of it?
Consistency: think of bank transaction, if you deposit money from one account to another either you want both to happen or None.
Availability: Up time, you can make copies of data so data is available regardless.
Partitioning: Scalability, you can split your set of data across multiple processing power, like VMS, machines (RDBMS fails here)

how many of the Cap Theory rules must hold in Order to call it a database?	2 out of 3

What Condition of Cap Theory does Hadoop Hold?	
Partitioning(Scability): Hadoop can run of cheap machines for data storage, cheap to scale, infinitely.
Availability(Flexibility): Makes 3 copies of data, so uptime is forever.

What kind of data is appropriate for Hadoop?
Behavioral data: Data processed as group vs individual queries, like health care.

What kind of data is NOT appropriate for Hadoop?
LOB (Line of Business data): Usually Transnational (think of bank transaction, if you deposit money from one account to another either you want both to happen or None.) and not a good fit

What is Hadoop?	
Two Components, deployed with other projects

Name Hadoop two components
Open-Source data Storage: HDFS
Processing API: MapReduce

Describe what it means that Hadoop is deployed with other projects?
Like HBase, Hive, Pig, etc

What is HDFS?
Name of the File system that Hadoop uses, Hadoop Distributed File System

Where did HDFS come from?
Googles GDFS, they made it when they wanted to Index the Entire Internet

Name different Types of Hadoop Distributions
Open Source, Commercial, Cloud

What is Hadoop Open source?
Apache Hadoop

What is Hadoop Commercial?
They are built around the Opensource that implement some functionality with extras.
Cloudera
HoronWorks
MapR

What is Hadoop Cloud?
It implements one of the Open Source, or Commercial versions through cloud
AWS
Windows Azure HDInsight

Why Use Hadoop?
Cheaper, Faster, Better

Give some Examples where Hadoop is Appropriate
Risk Modeling, Customer Churn Analysis, Recommendation Engine, Ad Targeting, Transaction Analysis, Threeat Analisys, Search Quality

How many copies normally HDFS make?
3 copies, each on different node(machines, VMs, ..)

What are the sizes f HDFS files?
64 to 128 mgb

When HBase is used?
Not everyone has the technical knowladge to use the processing frameworks (MapReduce) to process data in Hadoop or work with the files, so they use HBASE

What is HBase?
It is a Libary that can porvide a WideColumnStore.(Schema)
performing abstraction against Hadoop to give this type of information to you.
Note: you only need Schema on read.	https://o.quizlet.com/d9jpYmnuIZfhyLYeGgWojQ_m.png

Java Virtual VM & Hadoop
Hadoop Processes run in separate JVMs
JVMs do not share state
JVM processes differ between Hadoop 1.0 vs 2.0

Name Different Hadoop File Systems
HDFS( Distirbuted, or Psudo-distirbuted)
Regular File System
Cloud File System

Explain Hadoop HDFS(Distirbuted)
Uses HDFS, triple replicated and and JVM daemons run in various locations according where you place them

Explain Hadoop HDFS(Psudo-Distirbuted)
Use HDFS designed for testing, Implemented on a single node on a single machine. Uses HDFS, and JVM daemons run Processes

Hadoop with Regular File System
Called the Standalone, just work with local file system with single JVM

HAdoop Cloud File System
Similer to stand Alone mode in that you are not using HDFS, Like AWS: S3 file system, or Azure: BLOB

How Hadoop works picture
https://o.quizlet.com/0N0sc3DOf-0n8jMyB3Dhfw_m.png
